DOCS-7826-Sockets-examples-editorial-kt (#717)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/edits/sockets-connector.adoc

= Sockets Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Sockets Connector v1.1

> Anypoint Connector for Sockets (Sockets Connector) provides a sockets listener, send capability, and send and receive functionality. Provides TCP and UDP requesters.

Reviewer: notice lowercase "sockets listener" here; please standardize and let me know what to add to our list

Reviewer: "...functionality for both TCP and UDP requesters"?

Reviewer: Also, the rest of this topic set refers only to TCP. Is that intentional? Will the audience be confused?

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/connector-sockets.adoc[Sockets Connector Release Notes] +
Exchange: https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.connectors/mule-sockets-connector/[Sockets Connector]

== POM File Information

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.mule.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-sockets-connector</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> Mule converts RELEASE to the latest version. To specify a version, view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule converts `RELEASE` to the latest version. To specify a version, view
```

Anypoint Exchange and click *Dependency Snippets*.

== Configure a Socket Listener

> The Socket Listener represents a socket endpoint that clients can connect to. By browsing to this endpoint, external clients establish a TCP Socket connection and trigger the flow each time they send a message.

Reviewer: ditto presentation of socket terms

Reviewer: Aside from capitalization question...:
```suggestion
The Socket Listener is the connection endpoint for client requests. By browsing to this endpoint, external clients establish a TCP Socket connection and trigger a communication flow each time they send a message.
```
"TCP or UDP socket connection"?

> You can configure a Socket Listener by referencing the configuration element from the listener's `config-ref`. This configuration sets up a Socket Listener to accept local incoming connections on port 8082:

Reviewer: Can we provide a noun object to follow `...the listener's `config-ref`?

Reviewer: Is it okay that this text mentions local connections but the previous refers to external clients?

[source,xml,linenums]
----
	<sockets:listener-config name="SocketsListenerConfig">
		<sockets:tcp-listener-connection host="localhost" port="8082" />
	</sockets:listener-config>
----

== Supported Operations

> Socket connector provides the user with two basic operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Socket Connector provides two basic operations:
```
Not sure that we need a bullet list for these two short names....

    * Send
    * Send and Receive

== Supported Protocols

> Sockets Connector supports these TCP protocols:

Reviewer: UDP?

* Direct Protocol +

>   The socket reads until no more bytes are (momentarily) available. On slow networks EOFProtocol and LengthProtocol may be more reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The socket reads until no more bytes are (immediately) available. On slow networks, `EOFProtocol` and `LengthProtocol` might be more reliable.
```

* EOF Protocol +
  Reading is terminated by the stream being closed by the client.
* Length Protocol +

>   This protocol is defined by sending / reading an integer (the packet length) and then the data to be transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This protocol is defined by sending or reading an integer (the packet length) and then sending or reading the data to be transferred.
```

* Custom Class Loading Length Protocol +

>   A Length Protocol that uses a specific class loader to load objects from streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is a length protocol that uses a specific class loader to load objects from streams.
```

* Safe Protocol +

>   This is a test protocol and should not be used in productive environments. This protocol precedes every message with a cookie.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is a test protocol that should not be used in production environments. This protocol precedes every message with a cookie.
```

* Streaming Protocol +

>   This protocol allows the socket's send operation to return a message with the original InputStream as payload.

Reviewer: "send operation" > "Send operation"?

Reviewer: `InputStream`

* XML Message Protocol +

>   The XmlMessageProtocol is a protocol used to read streaming XML documents. The only requirement is that each document includes an XML declaration at the beginning of the document of the form "<?xml...". Make sure that the XML documents being streamed begin with an XML declaration when using this protocol. Data are read until a new document is found or until there is no more data (momentarily). For slower networks, XmlMessageEOFProtocol may be more reliable. Also, the default character encoding for the platform is used to decode the message bytes when looking for the XML declaration. Some caution with message character encodings is warranted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`XmlMessageProtocol` is a protocol used to read streaming XML documents. This protocol requires that each document begin with an XML declaration of the form "<?XML...". 
+
+ Data is read until a new document is found or until there is no more currently available data. For slower networks, `XmlMessageEofProtocol` might be more reliable. 
+
+ Also, because the default character encoding for the platform is used to decode the message bytes when looking for the XML declaration, some caution with message character encodings is warranted.
```

> * XML Message Eof Protocol +

Reviewer: Please reread and verify that the proper protocol name vs. syntax presentations are used throughout:
```suggestion
* XML Message EOF Protocol +
```

>   Extends XmlMessageProtocol to continue reading until either a new message or EOF is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Extends `XmlMessageProtocol` to continue reading until either a new message or EOF is found.
```

* Custom Protocol +

>   Users can define their own protocol by writing a class that extends TcpProtocol, and that will be used as custom protocol.

Reviewer: "Users" or "You"?

Reviewer: `TcpProtocol`?
Again, I think we need to distinguish between what we call a protocol and the actual syntax for the protocol as used in code. I have just guessed here; you will know best.

> These application level protocols are implemented on top of TCP. For these protocols to work properly, implement these in both client and server ends.

Reviewer: "application-level protocols"

Reviewer: "ends" or "endpoints"?

> By default, a Socket implements the `Safe Protocol`, unless a different protocol is specified in the config element. The following example, demonstrates how to configure the socket to use Direct Protocol:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, a socket implements Safe Protocol, but you can specify a different protocol in the `config` element. The following example demonstrates how to configure the socket to use Direct Protocol:
```

Reviewer: Again, names vs. code. You know best.
